to the cloud if you saw a prompt asking
you about recording please hit okay if
you were okay with this meeting being
recorded
hello my name is Dietrich Iola and I
work on the I confess team and I'm happy
to welcome you all here to the monthly
local offline meetup where folks who are
interested in technologies that work
offline may or may not use IP fest but
even discussing the use cases and
application and needs in offline
communities comes up regularly a loosely
knit group of people with shared
interests today I would like to welcome
our key
it was joining us from a place in the
world where it is very late at night so
thank you for staying up late to talk
who will present to us his work in
building offline knowledge centers re
you want to say hello and tell us a
little bit about yourself tell us what
you're working on
hello everyone Thanksgiving light I am
part of open source community for a very
long time and I'm based currently based
in Cambodia and I welcome in my day job
is working on open data but I also work
on a couple of social impact projects
and I'm going to talk about one of those
today
our our key and I met take 2010-11 yeah
in Vietnam at that time long long ago
but I think at the time you were doing I
got hooked up with you through some open
source project maybe through Mozilla or
a blue to folks yeah and you were doing
some accessibility workshop and I know I
yeah this guy sounds awesome I want to
meet this guy I think you heard about me
in ba camp ba camp in Laos and when you
came down to the Noi you met me for the
first beer
teri how how do I need to do that is
there anything special I need to do for
that in the recording your meeting if
you're looking at the Brady Bunch for
you that's what will come in through on
the recording so just come in for
yourself got it
okay I put it on speaker view
or do you want and I'm pretty much for
you for the recording Brady Bunch tends
to be better if somebody shares then it
also okay you just right all right all
right okay good to go alright let me
figure out how to share my screen please
let me know if you can see my
presentation screen we can yeah yeah
fantastic so thanks for being right my
name is rocky and this talk is more
about my journey trying to bring
education to remote places where I was I
was living it was my journey through
India where I was born and raised
through Kenya where I lived for a while
and and all the way to Southeast Asia
where I live and work right now I love
libraries I spent most of my school days
living in libraries and I have a strong
belief that if we provide knowledge
children could self learn but but the
places where I live
it's not always I call them resource
constrained countries because quite
often it's we don't have access to
broadband access to even powers and I
work for I was lucky enough to work a
lot of interesting projects I was part
of Mozilla for a long time working on
the localization team and after my work
I am a strong believer on the power of
digital technology to bring equitable
access to make things equal for people
and the project that I am currently
talking about is one such project the
design of the project was what I call
resource driven it's driven by what
hardware I could find in a country in
Kenya and Cambodia I look around and
find what habit is locally available and
try to build a soul
I'm always kind of designing my
solutions so I don't have to import
stuff from anywhere so it's always
driven by the resources that are
available and the challenges that that I
face on the ground so one of the one of
the challenges that I would quite often
see living in in Southeast Asia and
during my time in Africa is education is
quite often is the only way for people
to to make a good life for themselves
that includes me I had I was lucky
enough to have a very good education and
I was able to to make a good life for
ourselves and so I'm always looking at
that and this project is about trying to
do try to bring high quality education
but making sure that that it's openly
licensed so quite often in most of the
countries even the textbooks are not
open licensed though it is made by the
government these textbooks are owned by
private publications so I am quite aware
that it's really important to have
educational content under open license
and also if we are building a solution I
tried my best to use open hardware so we
don't get into a lot into any kind of
windows also not just this solution is
not just for students it's actually for
teachers as well because in most
countries teachers rarely get sort of
refresher courses quite often they never
go to any refresher courses so this this
kind of offline libraries is not only
just for students not only just also for
teachers where they can refer to to the
to the resources in there though this is
primarily targeted for schools but it
could be also deployed in
places uncommon places like disaster
relief camps refugee camps out and also
schools that community centers in
certain not - world news places in a big
city so it's so they're the inspiration
the origin story of this whole thing
goes back to this project perhaps you
have heard about the hole-in-the-wall
project in India this was an experiment
by su gato
Misha he noticed that the kids living in
Islam next to his office could never had
access to any form of formal education
so what he did is he literally made a
hole in the wall and put an end
cold thank you computer with a keyboard
and a mouse that was access to thing and
it was just an experiment to see these
kids barely speak English I mean this
whole computer is in English but very
quickly he realized that kids learnt
they mastered how to open programs how
to launch a browser how to traffic and
then very quickly they started teaching
each other this kind of self-paced
learning words until then they were like
it was always like Oh children has to go
to school they have to stay in a very
structured environment and a teacher
will impact education and the children
will learn but hole-in-the-wall project
has shown them given the right tools
given the right environment children
could learn each other so this was for
me like one of the first first
inspiration and I still encourage you I
think the project is still going on
moving to East Africa this was a project
called rural internet kiosks this was
done by a good friend of mine and he
designed this what is Kiyo's I
it's a shop that sells like smokes and
milk and snacks but behind the kiosk are
two computer screens this is a Linux
machine with multiple screens
multiplexed and on and the internet was
delivered through reset this was before
3G had come to East Africa and there's a
solar panel that was providing the
battery the power for this whole setup
so those who could pay could actually
access internet and they would pay the
shop the kiosk owner some money but the
children would use this resource for
free I worked on this project I did a
little bit of integration for this
project and when this was this was
completely offline and this was like
really really inspiring even today about
10 years later people are still asking
us like hey we would like to deploy
these machines in places like South
Sudan right now use of Mesa is no longer
required because we do have pretty good
2g and 3G connections in some parts of
Africa so this was my first experience
in trying to bring education offline so
since then things have changed a lot I'm
gonna switch gears here and talk about
hardware one of the first successful
projects that was done worldwide was the
One Laptop Per child project this was
not really a hundred dollar laptop but
that was the goal to have a inexpensive
but rugged London that could be used for
children for in schools and this was
really really advanced for its time it
actually had two Wi-Fi cards and it was
doing mesh networking which was super
advanced like if they like if in a
classroom environment children could
actually see each other out and they
could actually collaborate
work on this platform so this was really
great but the challenge is making
hardware is really expensive it was
really hard to sustain this this kind of
model trying to build hardware 15 years
later right now what we use is we have
we are using these raspberry PI's which
are the single board computers right now
I just check the prices it's about like
30 dollars and it has the same
performance as the One Laptop Per child
device one of the reason we are moving
away from laptops to Raspberry Pi which
does not have a screen which does not
have a keyboard is because of the
proliferation of mobile phones now this
has changed everything
this is the last year's stats of mobile
penetration and Cambodia where I live
and I'm so shocked actually
Cambodia population is about 13 million
but there are there are more phones than
people which is kind of strange but it's
not very uncommon like people have two
or three SIM cards so I guess that's
that's a thing so the reason I'm looking
at providing digital libraries and
educational interfaces through
Raspberry Pi and through Wi-Fi is
because we now have mobile phones and
these are smart phones with three inches
touchscreen and a Wi-Fi not a lot of
storage capacity but they can connect to
a Wi-Fi connection yeah by so that the
mobile phone penetration has changed a
lot in educational technology space this
is the digital library that that we have
deployed in Cambodia and few other
countries on the left-hand side the
black PCB that you see is a solar power
charge controller
I forget the name of the company that
produces it but that particular charge
controller is connected to a a car
battery and a large solar panel on the
the red box is the Raspberry Pi with a
128 Meg gigabyte SD card that has all
the learning material and the white box
is actually a Wi-Fi router that's
running open wrt lassparri pi has a
onboard Wi-Fi chip but it it is not
powerful it is not reliable so if you it
can connect to ten clients but as more
clients join the network it just drops
and it consumes a lot of power when I
talk about challenges of building such
libraries Wi-Fi is remains one of the
biggest challenge the good thing is all
of these devices could be run using a
power bank that you use to charge your
mobile phone because the chip that is
that the board that is in your phone is
actually the same on chip that's running
these devices so the power the power
consumption remains very very little how
do you access this so on this device we
have a django application running this
application is called Calibri it's it's
it runs on the Raspberry Pi and you can
see the interface you could once you
join this Wi-Fi network it will point
you to a series of mock style courses so
you can choose whether you want to learn
through Konica Khan Academy or you want
to learn about how to be teachers how to
deal with bullying in schools so it is
self-paced social learning and you can
also download stuff so that is you have
some storage on your phone so quite
often you could go out when you're in
school or in a community space you could
access the access to content download it
and you could you could view it when
you're back home one of the most
important thing about this kind of
environment is in its classroom
environment the teacher you have to
follow the pace set by the teacher but
in a learning environment like this some
kids who are smart could go through the
material really quickly but others who
would need a little more they can learn
in their own pace so it is it's it's
very adaptable so this this is some of
the volunteers in Cambodia teaching the
kindergarten teachers how to access it
we are trying to develop a lot of local
content videos and music so they can be
used in kindergartens and primary school
this particular device actually has
about 100 gigabytes of content from Khan
Academy to offline Wikipedia so if
somebody who is learning about where is
Florida they could actually go and
search and read a Wikipedia article
about Florida either in English or in
command so to sum it up this is applying
knowledge hotspots that basically are a
way to deliver contents offline but also
try to create a learning environment
that could be very sub space we we have
deployed this and ran it for about a
year now unfortunately right now due to
go with 19 the schools are closed until
number 2020 so so I its the schools are
closed but the devices are still running
I hope we have found out that
that we had very little problems except
one solar panel which was faulty which
was poor quality we had to replace but
otherwise it was running this library is
also fixed in schools but we also have a
mobile to talk or a small three wheeled
cart that goes around different schools
and we have tablets and in the in the
tiptoe so children in the communities
could actually borrow the tablet do an
activity or watch a video or use their
parents are quite often busy they borrow
their parents phones and trying to
access it the next step for us is to
have a lot of local content on this on
these devices it is really important for
us to have all of this offline often
quite often because the school's
themselves cannot pay the power bills I
mean they have some out they do have
power in schools but quite often they
don't have budget to pay so quite often
there is like no so we we built the
device in such a way that it will last
for three days without being recharged
so the challenges now this is where this
is where I would love to have IP efforts
community helpers Calibri the software
that is running in the libraries have
some p2p system so that they're thinking
about adopting IVFs the implementation
is has still hasn't happened so from the
hardware side I found there is no Wi-Fi
device on any of the SOC birds whether
it's Raspberry Pi or the boats from Olli
makes or any of the banana I and all
these variants the the Wi-Fi chip is
quite often very unreliable it does not
scale it quite often it come it consumes
so much power that it
becomes unreasonable to use it on a
solar setup so right now we have to use
a open wrt device which actually somehow
is much more power efficient and it
scales to more than 50 lines per device
and also we could do a mesh network
where we could actually extend the reach
of the digital library to the whole
village by using a mesh network so that
makes it really so it is really when
building this system I had to use a lot
of hacks because unfortunately you you
cannot have a captive portal I don't
know if you know what a captive portal
is but if you're in a hotel or at the
airport and you connect to Wi-Fi you get
this splash screen which is called the
half the bottle interestingly captive
portal relies on DNS so if you're doing
deployments like this where there is no
DNS capital puffles don't work so one of
the tricks that we use is called it's
it's called a DNS black hole where we
are basically listening for the request
and sending them to our local local
server it's a it's a hacky way but this
needs to be replaced
DNS should work service discovery should
work offline I say should because it's
absolutely needed mobile devices
primarily we are looking at Android but
Apple iOS devices as well at the moment
they hit a captive portal there they
check for they do something like call
back home where they check if this
device is really connected to internet
if it doesn't the new Android and iOS
they actually drop the Wi-Fi or they
give them a say saying like oh sorry if
there is no internet on this Wi-Fi
device I will not connect now this
becomes an issue so quite often we until
until now we were doing
some kind of trying to fool the system
to show that yes we are connecting to
google.com but to do it but in newer
devices it's no longer possible to do it
because they use HTTP and it's not
really impossible to fake HT HTTP
requests once you connect to the once
you have connected to the DNS you have a
captive portal you have to come out of
the captive portal to a web browser so
we could redirect you to our learning
materials this captive portal hand-off
really doesn't work because when you are
doing captive portal both iOS devices
and Android devices
give you an iframe which is not really a
true browser and they don't allow us to
fire up a browser so this whole
onboarding experience is really hockey
and it's really difficult especially
when you're work when you're when you're
trying to deploy it in somewhere where
people don't have experience in
technology before so it becomes a bit of
an issue to successfully to do do the
deployment of this system someone needs
to have a good internet connection so if
I'm doing this in AP I need to find
someone who has a really good internet
connection in Haiti to actually download
all the materials first and then copy it
off to the SD the SD card and deploy it
so it is it is really dependent on
having someone on the ground with good
internet connection to through the
deployment and also when you are when
you are watching videos there is no mesh
network so there's a lot of load on the
system especially when you are
broadcasting videos it becomes a really
an issue so it's really it would be
really fun to actually look forward to a
day when we would have some kind of PWA
ipfs powered system where videos could
also be sent through the network than
coming from this device
syllabic is the largest portion of the
deployment cost the board the Raspberry
Pi and the access point they are very
inexpensive even the SD card is only
like $15 now but the solar panel itself
is 120 dollars and in some places it's
even $200 and they don't last for a very
long time so for these kind of
deployments to work actually solar power
should become more accessible and more
reliable and I hope it's getting cheaper
but I hope the prices will drop so we
could do more deployments future we are
all waiting for the co 819 to go away
schools are closed so we can't do any
more deployments anymore but the plan
was before Corbin 19 to expand this to
form our schools and to have a lot of
local language learning material myself
I'm trying to design if you're a product
if you have some experience in software
engineering or hardware manufacturing I
would love to talk to you because it's
possible to shrink this package into one
small device all you have to do is
unpack this device pop in and SD card
get some content and it should be ready
to go and that's the vision I would
really love to have but right now I
don't have the resources or the
technology skills to make it happen
there you go that's all for me I would
love to answer any questions that you
might have thank you for coming and
speaking people who figure I'll use the
clap response in the chat that was
fascinating and I think there's a
there's a number of questions in the
chat
first one there is whether or not there
are media playback speed controls and
some of these self-guided learning
systems can do to beat them media
playback speed controls so people's
ability to determine the speed at which
the media is played back faster slow
also probably the rate at which they're
going through learning materials it
seems like would be relevant as well
yeah I it's using a browser media player
with rate control but so I think I would
say I saw people actually asking for
captions and so for Khan Academy the
content is localized and captioning is
there and people actually use play this
in 1x and 2x so I've seen that happen
most often people have downloading data
ask what what the OS is on the router
whether it's a standard or custom OS I
think he said open wrt but did you any
tweaks to it so it's running open wrt
part of the box
the only tweak I had was related to
captive portal it just uses an IP tables
a hack to capture and dream that it
Lewis had a question about the voltage
and wattage requirements for the panel's
I don't have I don't have the numbers
out of my head but I could if you drop
me an email I would share yeah I think
that actually if you could just drop a
comments on that on the issue where we
filed the meeting that probably a good
place because that everybody I found the
meeting could also see the answer the
question there was another question are
there tools to facilitate the
collaboration of captioning like webvtt
so
not yet so that's something that's
something that needs to be done it's
usually right now we are doing it
offline or using a web service but it's
not built into the system yet so Calibri
is an open source software so you're
welcome to give a request for that and I
will share the presentation issue
[Music]
fantastic thanks I had a question about
Calibri do you bundle the it does
Calibri have distributions and releases
that have content bundled in or do you
on these devices install Calibri and
then dump everything onto all the media
and content on the Westie card how
tightly coupled are those systems so
they have a service worker sort of thing
that actually pulls zip files of Calibri
service what I did for another project
called Internet in a box was I used
BitTorrent
so it tries to pull using BitTorrent
instead of using it's creepy it takes
forever to download content both during
deployment time but also I would love to
have when when you have people who have
already downloaded content on their
mobile phone it'll be nice to actually
send packets laterally then coming from
the server and also updates now that's
another thing the way this system is
updated is by swapping SD cards so I'm
working on a system where when a mobile
library goes to a school it could talk
to their system and say hey I have some
new files would you like to update your
database and that kind of p2p syncing
would be really lovely to have but once
again I don't have anyone to code it so
if you know a little bit of Python and
JavaScript like oh this is the
the unzipping as reading is reminding me
of some of the work around offline
Wikipedia looking at serviceworker is to
be able to get updates unzip and and
make render readable on-the-fly
a complicated system yeah sir cubics was
the project based out of Mali that did
it and they used a format called sim
which was a format but the idea is to
actually have an open systems that could
and right now whoever videos our videos
are the most large content that needs to
be synchronized and there is no good
solution for that
I think yeah so like putting Zim's
those like offline snapshots of big
Wikimedia websites such as Wikipedia in
different languages is something we've
been experimenting recently and the
recently you mentioned the upgrade
mechanism right now is based mostly on
swapping SD cards and that gives me an
idea that we have lucky if we start
thinking about introducing ipfs
somewhere for things like that
we we don't we we cannot assume there
will be actual connectivity in place to
do the update of bigger corpus of data
however in recent OFS release we had
this import export functionality added
where data that was previously like
properly chunked into smaller pieces and
imported to ipfs repository that
internal format can be exported to a car
file which is sort of like a zoom and
that can be just put on SD cards and
then in a different place just imported
type EFS node so that's sort of like a
sneakernet
approach to distributing bigger data
sets that are already on ipfs however
where there's known networking that
could handle transfer in the reasonable
time I find this interesting to explore
explore that yeah fantastic I will
really love to talk to you about the
offline
our getit question also about just how
you how your finding are you working
with local organizations to be able to
find schools that are would accept these
types of deployments are you partnering
with organizations are these just
personal relationships yeah so I talked
about local organizations that they that
have long-standing relationship with
schools and the Ministry of Education so
that kind of makes it makes it possible
for me to bring this technology most of
the open-source projects in fail because
there is no longer relationship once the
technology starts working the project
dies what I'm trying always trying to do
is is there a project on the ground that
is doing work with teacher education or
empowering children are working with
refugees and trying to sneak this
technology enjoy lately since go with
nineteen people have actually
approaching me because this I designed
this for offline world but with the
current epidemic we have people
realizing that this is a need that's
there on the ground so the right now I'm
trying not to scale this but try to
figure out all the challenges that I'm
facing trying to address them it's
really hard to deploy these things
because we need to train people to
deploy these devices
you
I had any any other questions for our
key
by the way Louis's dropping some some
interesting notes and and links in the
Java as well
yeah sorry I didn't use the voice chat
um no I know where is can I ask a
question out loud or is it best yeah
yeah absolutely
so with the content so open content try
to combine two words though and horribly
how are you finding the challenges of
getting like content producers to
licence that in a way that protects
their interests obviously it's very
difficult to create engaging and useful
content but also enables projects like
this to succeed about being strangled by
the costs of you know that every content
creator wanting to be paid 20 dollars
per view
that's a great question there is no easy
answer but I'm relying on existing
content and that comes from One Laptop
Per child project and Khan Academy and
Wikipedia - we try to get these open
licensed content and Calibri already
does the curation so we are pulling from
those those repositories right now the
content that is that we are producing we
are trying to force people to open
licensed it because in Cambodia for
instance most of the content development
is funded by EU or one of the large
funding organization and lately they
have been stipulating that if you use
public funding for developing content it
is recommended to kind of release them
under open license so that is one kind
one way of ensuring that people would
release content that is open for all but
the challenges it's really difficult the
trend is either to package all the
content they develop into an app and
release it on App Store and that kind of
login always happens and it's really
hard for us to to kind of change that
mentality but using funding as a kind of
a weapon to open knowledge bases is what
we are trying to do but if you have
something some ideas that are working in
Argentina or in equal to love to here
and try them out in this part of
you
and any other questions for our key
some type - we use pageant - to create
our bundle so if you have people who
have experience with that I would love
to talk to them have a whole bunch of
requests
along that yeah maybe in the an issue
for the meeting and the repo drop a bull
I think your asks and links to our folks
to learn more I think that'd be great
fantastic thank you everyone it was
fantastic talking to you all thanks so
much for joining us appreciate it
there's a great one nice to see you all
we'll probably have another one of these
in another month so feel free to join if
you have a topic you'd like to share on
and speak about whether it's a formal
talk or even just a conversation topic
or something you have a question would
like to learn more about discuss with
the group feel free to add it to the
agenda and we'll pretty soon here post a
new comment in that issue for next
month's meeting thanks a lot
all right
you